You have conquered the wicked one.
Who?
A whom was John addressing?
Well, in 1 John chapter 2 verse 14, today's text,
I am writing you young Mehan,
because you were strong,
and the Word of God remains in you,
and you have conquered the wicked one.
Young men who conquered the wicked one, Satan.
How did they do it?
Well, they were strong, spiritually strong,
and the Word of God remained in them.
That is, I had a heartfelt appreciation for Jehovah's Word.
The principles that we're going to discuss this morning
are good for all of us.
But for a few minutes,
I thought we could address young men specifically,
because we have many young men,
here at Bethel, single and married,
and we have many young men in the field
and the congregations,
and all of you are reaching out
and desirous of serving Jehovah fully.
And we appreciate that.
How is it that you young men
can be spiritually strong
and demonstrate your heartfelt appreciation
for Jehovah's Word?
Well, I thought we would consider the examples
of three young men in their late teens,
to mid-twenties,
who were mentioned in the Bible,
Joseph, Daniel, and Timothy,
and what we can learn from their examples.
So what can we learn from Joseph?
Turn in your Bible to Psalm 105,
and we're going to begin reading in verse 17.
He sent ahead of them a man
who was sold to be a slave, Joseph.
With fadders, they bound his feet.
His neck was put in irons.
Until the time that his Word,
that is, Jehovah's Word, proved true,
the saying of Jehovah is what refined him.
So how did the saying of Jehovah refine Joseph?
We know that as a young man,
Joseph was gifted by Jehovah
with dreams that had prophetic significance.
The dreams indicated that Joseph
would enjoy some wonderful privileges.
But in fact, it would be years
before Jehovah's promise would be realized.
And in those intervening years,
as verse 18 indicates,
Joseph went through some very challenging times.
How did he remain faithful?
Well, he knew Jehovah.
And rather than drawing away from Jehovah,
he drew closer to Jehovah
with full faith that Jehovah
would keep his promise.
As a result, the experiences refined him.
And when it was Jehovah's time,
Joseph qualified for some amazing privileges.
Now, what can you young men learn from Joseph's example?
Don't rush a privilege.
Be patient, willing to wait on Jehovah
and learn what he's teaching you today.
And if you take that approach,
you will be loyal to Jehovah
and just as Jehovah was loyal to Joseph,
he'll be loyal to you.
What can we learn from Daniel?
Ezekiel chapter 14 verse 14.
Let's read it.
Ezekiel 14, 14.
Even if these three men,
Noah, Daniel, and Job,
were within it,
they would be able to save only themselves
because of their righteousness
declares the sovereign word Jehovah.
Now, what can you young men learn from these words?
Well, Ezekiel penned these words
about the year 612 BCE.
That means that Noah and Job
had been dead for hundreds of years.
Their record of faith and integrity
was intact and untouchable.
But what about Daniel?
Well, five years before this,
he had been taken to Babylon as a young man,
and it's possible that he was in his late teens
or early twenties at this time.
He was mentioned by Jehovah in the same sentence
as Noah and Job.
What a privilege, but why?
Well, the answer is in the verse, do you see it?
Because of his righteousness.
Daniel at a young age established a reputation
as one who loved righteousness.
He determined in his heart that he would not
break Jehovah's law.
What can you young men imitate Daniel?
By building a reputation as one who loves righteousness.
We're not talking about over righteousness.
That's not a desirable quality.
But a love for righteousness and a determination
to do Jehovah's will.
If you have that kind of a reputation,
Jehovah will notice you just as he noticed Daniel.
What can we learn from Timothy?
One more verse, 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 17.
That is why I am sending Timothy to you
because he is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord.
He will remind you of my methods in connection with Christ Jesus,
just as I am teaching everywhere in every congregation.
Why should these words be encouraging to young men?
Well, do the math.
Timothy was likely in his late teens five years earlier
when Paul invited him to become a missionary.
Timothy accompanied Paul over those five years
and when Paul wrote to the congregation in Corinth,
he entrusted a young man in his mid-twenties
with the weighty responsibility
of assisting a congregation that was facing some serious
spiritual challenges.
Why? Why did Paul trust Timothy?
Because for those years,
Timothy paid attention and followed direction.
And isn't it true, especially here at Bethel,
we have many opportunities every day to do that, don't we?
To pay attention and follow direction.
Even in small things,
it's important to learn to do that.
And if you learn to do that,
then you'll be entrusted with greater responsibility.
One more point.
Does this artwork look familiar to you?
It's one of my favorites.
It depicts Paul and Timothy.
And it nicely portrays the spirit of cooperation
that existed between those two men
and the affection they felt for one another.
On what was their friendship based,
a mutual love for Jehovah,
and a determination to do Jehovah's work?
If you're a brother,
do you see yourself in that picture?
All of us should,
either as the older man or the younger man.
If you're a young man,
take advantage of opportunities
to learn from and benefit from the experience
of spiritual older men.
I think of the older men
who helped me along the way.
And I so appreciate that they did.
And if you're an older man,
don't be afraid to share what you know.
We want our young men
to advance spiritually.
So what have we learned?
Well, don't rush a privilege,
be patient, wait on Jehovah.
And like Daniel,
establish a reputation
for one who loves righteousness.
And from Timothy,
pay attention, follow direction.
In these ways you can demonstrate
your spiritual strength
and your heartfelt appreciation
for Jehovah's work.
And like those young men
in the first century,
you will conquer the wicked one.